Now that you know a little bit about complex numbers it's time to move on and learn about multiplying
complex numbers and whenever you talk about complex numbers and multiplication you are often going to
come across the complex conjugate.
So therefore I'm also going to introduce you to the complex conjugate.
It's actually a pretty neat little trick to multiply a complex number by its complex conjugate and I
will show you exactly what that means.
So let's get started.
Here we have two complex numbers Z and W..
And to multiply them together it's not quite as simple or straightforward as with additions.
So you might initially intuitively think that multiplying z times w should be a times c and then b times
D.
However the way that it actually works is you think about these like a set of numbers.
So here's a set of two numbers times a set of two numbers.
So then you actually have to distribute all of the individual multiplications.
So that means that z times W. is actually a times C..
That's this multiplication here and then a times D I.
Which is this term.
Times this term and then C times b i.
Which is this term times this term and then b times D I squared which is B times D I.
And now it's pretty interesting to see what happens these two terms can be combined because they are
both multiplying the imaginary operator.
However this term actually drops out so the imaginary part drops out because I squared is minus one
and that's because I is the square root of minus one so the square root of minus one times the square
root of minus one gives you minus one.
So this actually this term reduces to a real number.
So minus BD again the minus sign is because I squared equals minus one.
Okay.
So this is for multiplying complex numbers and in a moment when we switch to Python but I'm going to
show you is that doing all of this individual multiplication.
So separating out these four terms manually gives you the same result as just writing z times w..
Okay.
Now I'd like to introduce you to the complex conjugate.
So if Z is a complex number then a complex conjugate is indicated either using an asterisk in the superscript
or with a bar on top of the number like this.
Either one of these is acceptable.
These both mean the same thing.
So what is the complex conjugate.
How do you compute it.
It's actually really simple.
So if said is a plus b i then the complex conjugate of Z is a minus B I know what you're doing here
is you're flipping the sign of the imaginary part.
So it's not just that you're making the imaginary part negative.
So for example if the original said was a minus B I then the complex conjugate of Z would be a plus
b I noticed here you're also not doing anything to the real part.
So the real part stays the same the sign stays the same.
And it's just that the sign of the imaginary part flips.
So it's pretty simple.
And that is the complex conjugate and now something interesting happens when you multiply a complex
number by its complex conjugate.
So let's see what that is.
Let's work through the multiplication.
So z times Z.
Here I'm using a start to indicate the complex conjugate and actually if you like you can pause the
video here and work through this multiplication on your own and see what happens so working through
all the individual multiplications we get a squared and then minus A times B I because of the outer
terms here and then plus a times b I from this inner term here and minus B I squared.
Now this is not B times I squared.
This is actually the quantity B I.
And then all of that squared.
And that's because you're multiplying this b I by this minus B.
So then a couple of interesting things happen.
This a plus b.
This is minus and plus a B.
So these two terms actually cancel out and this.
So the I's squared becomes minus 1 which also cancels out this minus sign.
So you end up with a squared plus B squared.
So that's actually pretty cool you could multiply a complex number by its conjugate and that is equivalent
to taking the real part squared and adding the imaginary part squared and basically ignoring the imaginary
number.
So a squared plus b squared so what I'm going to do here is show you multiplication between two complex
numbers.
Let's say Z 1 is known pi complex.
How about four and five and then let's make Z too complex.
No.
And how about 6 and.
Minus two.
OK.
So what I'm going to do now is multiply z 1 times Z 2 and I'm going to do this the really slow really
painful really meticulous way by writing out all four of those individual products that I showed in
the slides.
So we have.
OK.
So that one took so long to write out I decided to go back and edit the video to make it go twice as
fast.
So apologies for the chipmunk version of Mike X. Cohen.
All right.
So now let's see what this number is.
So print w.
So this happens to be thirty four plus twenty two J.
And now what I want to show you is that that's still the same thing as writing z 1 times Z 2.
Okay.
Now given that why would you ever in this universe or any other alternate version of reality write out
all of this code which is highly prone to errors when you could just write out this.
The answer is you would never ever do this.
I'm just doing it once to illustrate to you the concept.
And of course you will never do this again.
Okay.
And I just want to show you that we can easily convert this complex number into simply into a simple
object so let's write some that simplify W.
And now notice that simplifies actually using I as the imaginary operator.
So thirty four plus twenty two.
I and of course you could also do this as simple I said one times Z two.
And that gives the same answer.
Okay.
So now let's talk about the complex conjugate.
So we already have this complex number here said 1 so I'm going to write and P that carnage that's the
function for the complex conjugate and that is for minus 5 J.
Remember this was for 5 J and then just to show you to illustrate that the complex conjugate is not
simply making sure that the imaginary part is negative.
I will also display the conjugate of Z 2 and that is now 6 plus to J.
Whereas before it was 6 minus 2 J the exercise for this video is to use simplify to show this rule that
I already proved algebraic Lee So z times Z conjugate complex conjugate equals A squared plus b squared
where A is the real part of Z and B is the imaginary part of Z.
Now it's actually this seems like it's really simple but it's actually a little bit tricky to get this
to display like this in simple simplify and it actually uses a few methods in simple simplify that I
haven't explicitly told you about yet but you should be able to figure out based on what else you learned
in this video anyway.
Now is your time to pause the video and get to work in Python.
Now I am going to switch to Python and show my solution.
So let me start by showing you how to create a complex number in Python.
Essentially what you do is you say A plus B times the imaginary operator and you'll remember that the
imaginary operator was sim that I introduced this in the previous video.
Now of course I haven't created a and b.
So let's say a comma B equals sim that symbols a comma B.
All right.
So that line runs.
And now let me print out z so you can see what it looks like and it's well it's not surprising.
It's basically just what I created over here.
Okay.
Now I didn't tell you how to compute the conjugate of a complex number in simple.
But I guess you probably started by thinking it should be something like this.
So let's let's try some dot coms.
Z Mm hmm.
And here we get an error.
This is simply has no attribute carnage.
So maybe it's something else.
So what I'm going to do is actually put the cursor here at the end of college and then press the tab
key on the keyboard and that auto completes to conjugate.
So it turns out that the function in simplify is called conjugate.
Okay.
So now we get something that doesn't really this is not really exactly what you might expect.
It says the conjugate of a minus i.e. times the conjugate of B.
Now what's going on here is that simply doesn't actually know enough information about A and B for all
simple knows a could be also a complex number and B could be a complex number.
So simple I just doesn't really know how to conjugate these two variables.
So we have to do is explicitly tell simply that we want these to be considered as real numbers not as
complex numbers.
So therefore I'm going to write real equals true.
And that forces simplify to consider a and b to be real numbers only so non complex numbers.
Now when I run this again we just get a minus times B.
Okay.
So with that in mind what I'm going to do now is start multiplying.
So let's say Z times sim that can't you get Z.
All right.
So this looks kind of right except what we want to do is complete all of this multiplication in order
to show that this reduces down to A squared plus B squared.
And so to do that I'm going to write some thought expand to force simplify to expand this operation
here.
All right.
So this is starting to look good.
Now we get that z times the conjugate of Z IS A squared plus B squared.
So the only thing I would like to do now is just to print this out with latex code just to make it look
a little bit nicer.
So let's write display math and then I'm going to say said Times said and then I want this to be with
an asterisk in the superscript.
So I will say carat star equals percent.
Yes.
And then I substitute.
Percent S for this thing.
Except it's not exactly this thing we need this to be converted into latex code.
So Sim dot latex.
All right.
Now I think this might crash because I don't believe that I've imported the display in math functions
yet.
Okay so I just have to go up here quickly and write from I python.
Display import import display comma math.
All right.
Now I think this is going to work.
So that's pretty cool we see z times said conjugate equals a squared plus B squared.
So in this video you learned a little bit more about working with complex numbers in particular multiplication
and the complex conjugate.
And this pretty interesting phenomenon that happens when you multiply a complex number by its complex
conjugate.
Now that may seem like a kind of weird academic thing but actually multiplying a number by its complex
conjugate is quite important in many areas of engineering and signal processing for example in the 48
transform.
So there's quite some useful applications of the complex conjugate.
Now what could possibly be better than multiplying complex numbers.
You guessed it it's dividing complex numbers.
And that comes up in the next video.
So stay tuned.